# Yaml-dsl.md

**Since Camel 3.9**

The YAML DSL provides the capability to define your Camel routes, route
templates \& REST DSL configuration in YAML.

# Defining a route

A route is collection of elements defined as follows:

    - from: #
        uri: "direct:start"
        steps: #
          - filter:
              expression:
                simple: "${in.header.continue} == true"
              steps: #
                - to:
                    uri: "log:filtered"
          - to:
              uri: "log:original"

-   route entry point, by default `from` and `rest` are supported

-   processing steps

Each step is represented by a YAML map that has a single entry where the
field name is the EIP name

As a general rule, each step provides all the parameters the related
definition declares, but there are some minor differences/enhancements:

-   **Output Aware Steps**
    
    Some steps such as `filter` and `split` have their own pipeline.
    When an exchange matches the filter expression or for the items
    generated by the split expression, such a pipeline can be defined by
    the `steps` field:
    
        filter:
          expression:
            simple: "${in.header.continue} == true"
            steps:
              - to:
                  uri: "log:filtered"

-   **Expression Aware Steps**
    
    Some EIPs such as `filter` and `split` support the definition of an
    expression through the `expression` field:
    
    **Explicit Expression field**
    
        filter:
          expression:
            simple: "${in.header.continue} == true"
    
    To make the DSL less verbose, the `expression` field can be omitted:
    
    **Implicit Expression field**
    
        filter:
          simple: "${in.header.continue} == true"
    
    In general, `expression` can be defined inline like in the examples
    above. But in case you need to provide more information, you can
    *unroll* the expression definition and configure any single
    parameter the expression defines.
    
    **Full Expression definition**
    
        filter:
          tokenize:
            token: "<"
            endToken: ">"

-   **Data Format Aware Steps**
    
    The EIP `marshal` and `unmarshal` supports the definition of data
    formats:
    
        marshal:
          json:
            library: Gson
    
    In case you want to use the data-format’s default settings, you need
    to place an empty block as data format parameters, like `json: {}`

# Defining endpoints

To define an endpoint with the YAML dsl you have two options:

1.  Using a classic Camel URI:
    
        - from:
            uri: "timer:tick?period=1s"
            steps:
              - to:
                  uri: "telegram:bots?authorizationToken=XXX"

2.  Using URI and parameters:
    
        - from:
            uri: "timer://tick"
            parameters:
              period: "1s"
            steps:
              - to:
                  uri: "telegram:bots"
                  parameters:
                    authorizationToken: "XXX"

# Defining beans

In addition to the general support for creating beans provided by [Camel
Main](#others:main.adoc#_specifying_custom_beans), the YAML DSL provides
a convenient syntax to define and configure them:

    - beans:
      - name: beanFromMap  # 
        type: com.acme.MyBean # 
        properties: # 
          foo: bar

-   the name of the bean which will be used to bound the instance to the
    Camel Registry

-   the full qualified class name of the bean

-   the properties of the bean to be set

The properties of the bean can be defined using either a map or
properties style, as shown in the example below:

    - beans:
      # map style
      - name: beanFromMap
        type: com.acme.MyBean
        properties:
          field1: 'f1'
          field2: 'f2'
          nested:
            field1: 'nf1'
            field2: 'nf2'
      # properties style
      - name: beanFromProps
        type: com.acme.MyBean
        properties:
          field1: 'f1_p'
          field2: 'f2_p'
          nested.field1: 'nf1_p'
          nested.field2: 'nf2_p'

The `beans` elements can only be used as the root element

## Creating bean using constructors

When beans must be created with constructor arguments, then this is made
easier in Camel 4.1 onwards.

For example as shown below:

    - beans:
      - name: myBean
        type: com.acme.MyBean
        constructors:
          0: true
          1: "Hello World"

The `constructors` is index based so the keys must be numbers starting
from zero.

You can use both constructors and properties.

## Creating beans from factory method

A bean can also be created from a factory method (public static) as
shown below:

    - beans:
      - name: myBean
        type: com.acme.MyBean
        factoryMethod: createMyBean
        constructors:
          0: true
          1: "Hello World"

When using `factoryMethod` then the arguments to this method is taken
from `constructors`. So in the example above, this means that class
`com.acme.MyBean` should be as follows:

    public class MyBean {
    
        public static MyBean createMyBean(boolean important, String message) {
            MyBean answer = ...
            // create and configure the bean
            return answer;
        }
    }

The factory method must be `public static` and from the same class as
the created class itself.

## Creating beans from factory bean

A bean can also be created from a factory bean as shown below:

    - beans:
      - name: myBean
        type: com.acme.MyBean
        factoryBean: com.acme.MyHelper
        factoryMethod: createMyBean
        constructors:
          0: true
          1: "Hello World"

`factoryBean` can also refer to an existing bean by bean id instead of
FQN classname.

When using `factoryBean` and `factoryMethod` then the arguments to this
method is taken from `constructors`. So in the example above, this means
that class `com.acme.MyHelper` should be as follows:

    public class MyHelper {
    
        public static MyBean createMyBean(boolean important, String message) {
            MyBean answer = ...
            // create and configure the bean
            return answer;
        }
    }

The factory method must be `public static`.

## Creating beans from builder classes

A bean can also be created from another builder class as shown below:

    - beans:
      - name: myBean
        type: com.acme.MyBean
        builderClass: com.acme.MyBeanBuilder
        builderMethod: createMyBean
        properties:
          id: 123
          name: 'Acme'

The builder class must be `public` and have a no-arg default
constructor.

The builder class is then used to create the actual bean by using fluent
builder style configuration. So the properties will be set on the
builder class, and the bean is created by invoking the `builderMethod`
at the end. The invocation of this method is done via Java reflection.

## Creating beans using script language

For advanced use-cases then Camel allows to inline a script language,
such as groovy, java, javascript, etc, to create the bean. This gives
flexibility to use a bit of programming to create and configure the
bean.

    - beans:
      - name: myBean
        type: com.acme.MyBean
        scriptLanguage: groovy
        script: >
          // some groovy script here to create the bean
          bean = ...
          ...
          return bean

When using `script` then constructors and factory bean/method is not in
use

## Using init and destroy methods on beans

Sometimes beans need to do some initialization and cleanup work before a
bean is ready to be used. For this you can use `initMethod` and
`destroyMethod` that Camel triggers accordingly.

Those methods must be public void and have no arguments, as shown below:

    public class MyBean {
    
        public void initMe() {
            // do init work here
        }
    
        public void destroyMe() {
            // do cleanup work here
        }
    
    }

You then have to declare those methods in YAML DSL as follows:

    - beans:
      - name: myBean
        type: com.acme.MyBean
        initMethod: initMe
        destroyMethod: destroyMe
        constructors:
          0: true
          1: "Hello World"

The init and destroy methods are optional, so a bean does not have to
have both, for example you may only have destroy methods.

# Configuring options on languages

Some [Languages](#components:languages:index.adoc) have additional
configurations you may need to use.

For example, the
[JSONPath](#components:languages:jsonpath-language.adoc) can be
configured to ignore JSon parsing errors. This is intended when you use
a [Content Based Router](#components:eips:choice-eip.adoc) and want to
route the message to different endpoints. But the JSon payload of the
message can be in different forms; meaning that the JSonPath expressions
in some cases would fail with an exception, and other times not. In this
situation, you need to set `suppress-exception` to true, as shown below:

    - from:
        uri: "direct:start"
        steps:
          - choice:
              when:
              - jsonpath:
                  expression: "person.middlename"
                  suppressExceptions: true
                steps:
                - to: "mock:middle"
              - jsonpath:
                  expression: "person.lastname"
                  suppressExceptions: true
                steps:
                - to: "mock:last"
              otherwise:
                steps:
                  - to: "mock:other"

In the route above, the following message

    {
      "person": {
        "firstname": "John",
        "lastname": "Doe"
      }
    }

Would have failed the JSonPath expression `person.middlename` because
the JSon payload does not have a `middlename` field. To remedy this we
have suppressed the exception.

# External examples

You can find a set of examples using `main-yaml` in [Camel
Examples](https://github.com/apache/camel-examples) which demonstrate
creating Camel Routes with YAML.

Another way to find examples of YAML DSL is to look in [Camel
Kamelets](https://github.com/apache/camel-kamelets) where each Kamelet
is defined using YAML.
